README.md, before:

# Election_Analysis
## Background
In this module, I will be learning and using Python 3 programming language to perform an analysis on election results.  I will be assisting a Colorado Board of Elections employee Tom in an election audit.  I will be responsible for calculating the total votes cast, the total votes for each candidate, the percentage of votes for each candidate, and the winner of the election based on the popular vote.  
## Lesson 1
This lesson consisted of learning about the command line, installing Python, installing GitBash, setting up a python environment, installing Visual Studio Code (VS Code), and creating and cloning a GitHub repository.  
## Lesson 2
Lesson two was about learning Python.  We created and executed a Python file, learned about data types, performed calculations, were introduced to data structures, decision statement, membership and logical operators, repetition statements and printing formats.  
## Lesson 3
I imported and inspected the election data file and learned the importance of pseudocode.  I have a roadmap for the project; I need to retreive the following data:  
  * The total number of vosts cast
  * A complete list of the candidates that received votes
  * The percentage of votes received for each candidate
  * The total number of votes each candidate received
  * The overall winner of the election as per the popular vote

## Lesson 4
I also about dependencies, modules and packages in Python.  I opened and read a file using both the direct path and indirect path processes.  Then I wrote to a text file and read the election results CSV file.  
## Lesson 5
In this lesson I determined the total number of votes cast in the election, which was 369,711 votes.  I retreived the names of the individual candidate in the election:  Charles Casper STockham, Diana DeGette, and Raymon Anthony Doane.  Next, I determined the vote count for each candidate:  Stockham = 85,213, DeGette = 272,892, and Doane = 11,606.  After determining the total votes cast and the number of votes for each candidate, I calculated the percentage of votes each candidate received, which were:  
  * Stockham = 23.0%
  * DeGette = 73.8%
  * Doane = 3.1%

The winning candidate was Diana DeGette, who received 272,892 votes for a winning percentage of 73.8%.  
## Lesson 6
I made changes to the original code so that the election results would print to the terminal and to a text file.  The directions in the module were extremely confusing.  I also had trouble with VS Code not allowing me indent and comment out certain lines of code.

Commit message:

Summary
Added summary of the coursework election analysis.

README.md, after:

# Election_Analysis
## Background
In this module, I will be learning and using Python 3 programming language to perform an analysis on election results.  I will be assisting a Colorado Board of Elections employee Tom in an election audit.  I will be responsible for calculating the total votes cast, the total votes for each candidate, the percentage of votes for each candidate, and the winner of the election based on the popular vote.  
### Lesson 1
This lesson consisted of learning about the command line, installing Python, installing GitBash, setting up a python environment, installing Visual Studio Code (VS Code), and creating and cloning a GitHub repository.  
### Lesson 2
Lesson two was about learning Python.  We created and executed a Python file, learned about data types, performed calculations, were introduced to data structures, decision statement, membership and logical operators, repetition statements and printing formats.  
### Lesson 3
I imported and inspected the election data file and learned the importance of pseudocode.  I have a roadmap for the project; I need to retreive the following data:  
  * The total number of vosts cast
  * A complete list of the candidates that received votes
  * The percentage of votes received for each candidate
  * The total number of votes each candidate received
  * The overall winner of the election as per the popular vote

### Lesson 4
I also about dependencies, modules and packages in Python.  I opened and read a file using both the direct path and indirect path processes.  Then I wrote to a text file and read the election results CSV file.  
### Lesson 5
In this lesson I determined the total number of votes cast in the election, which was 369,711 votes.  I retreived the names of the individual candidate in the election:  Charles Casper STockham, Diana DeGette, and Raymon Anthony Doane.  Next, I determined the vote count for each candidate:  Stockham = 85,213, DeGette = 272,892, and Doane = 11,606.  After determining the total votes cast and the number of votes for each candidate, I calculated the percentage of votes each candidate received, which were:  
  * Stockham = 23.0%
  * DeGette = 73.8%
  * Doane = 3.1%

The winning candidate was Diana DeGette, who received 272,892 votes for a winning percentage of 73.8%.  
### Lesson 6
I made changes to the original code so that the election results would print to the terminal and to a text file.  The directions in the module were extremely confusing.  I also had trouble with VS Code not allowing me indent and comment out certain lines of code.  

## Summary
The election analysis showed the following:
 - Approximately 369,711 votes were cast in the election.  
 - Three candidates received votes: 
        * Charles Casper Stockham
        * Diana DeGette
        * Raymon Anthony Doane

 - The results were:
 -      * Charles Stockham received 85,213 votes and 23.0% of the votes cast
 -      * Diana DeGette received 272,892 votes and 73.8% of the votes cast
 -      * Raymon Doane received 11,606 votes and 3.1% of the votes cast.  
 - The winner of the election was Diana DeGette, who received 73.8% of the popular vote.
